
    Site/System Name: UMassmodScore1
TDT Task Designation: New Event Detection (NED)



(1) Primary System Description

The system uses a single nearest neighbor approach to determine
whether a story is sufficiently similar to any previously seen 
story. The belief in novelty of the story was taken to be the 
average similarity with past stories minus similarity of the story to its closest neighbor in the past.

Cosine correlation (length-normalized inner product of 
story vectors) was used as a similarity metric. Both story vectors
were weighted according the the following scheme:

     TF = log (1 + tf)

     IDF = log ((N / DF) 0.5)

where tf is the number of times a given word occurs in a document,
DL is the document length (total number of word occurrences), 
avgDL is the average document length in the collection, DF
is the number of documents in the collection that contain one
or more occurrences of the word, and N is the total number of 
documents in the collection. 

All collection-wide statistics are incremental: we start with an 
empty collection and update statistics as the stories arrive.
Incoming stories were lowercased and reduced to a root form by
a dictionary-based stemmer [2]. Stop-words were removed.

The overlap of named entities and non named-entites with the five highest matching( by cosine similarity) stories was measured. Using these scores as further evidence,the original confidence score assigned to the story was modified.

(2) Training
    
    Newswire documents from TDT2, TDT3 and TDT4.


(3) Differences for each Contrastive Run

    No contrastive runs performed.


(4) New Conditions for this Evaluation

    The same system settings used were:

                model      = single link (set to knn 1)
                similarity = cosine
                weighting  = tf*idf
                threshold  = -0.2
                deferral   = 10


(5) References

[1] (1999), Allan, J., Callan, J., Feng, F. and Malin, D. 
"INQUERY and TREC-8," to appear in the Proceedings of TREC-8, 
November, 1999. 

[2] (1993), Krovetz, R. "Viewing Morphology as an Inference
Process," Proceedings of the Sixteenth Annual International ACM 
SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information 
Retrieval, 191-203.  

[3] (2000), Robert E. Schapire and Yoram Singer. "BoosTexter: A boosting-based system for text categorization". Machine Learning, 39(2/3):135-168, 2000. 
